Writerside/topics/Week-02.md, before:

# Week 02

## New Technology used this week

- [FL Studio](https://www.image-line.com/)
- Blender (Modification of some static meshes)

## Progress this week

This week, we created new sounds, reworked the starter room and gave the elevator some animations.

### Sounds

First, we downloaded some sounds and modified them using FL Studio. We added filters and other modifications, to create
a unique sound for the game.

Once we had modified the sounds, we integrated them into the game. Of course, the sounds are not yet perfect at this
stage of the project.
They will still be improved so that they feel natural when playing.

The following image is a Screenshot of the Mixing & Filter area in FL Studio:

![FL_Studio.png](FL_Studio.png)

[//]: # (TODO a video of the sounds ingame?)

### Elevator animations

We converted the elevator door into a blueprint and added a sliding animation to it. The elevator door now opens when
the player stands inside the elevator.

We also added a new spawn point inside the elevator, which means that the player now starts inside the elevator.

<video src="Elevator-Animation.mp4"/>

### Reworked Starter Room

As it was already possible to see in the video above, we added a mirror to the elevator. This was done to resemble the
real-life elevator in the building where the game is set as close as possible.

This came with the problem that the current starter room was invisible in the mirror. After a bit of debugging, we found
out, that the Unreal Engine Box Brushes are sort of deprecated and won't render in the lighting system, which is
possible to see in the Lumen overview mode. Due to this, we had to remake the whole room using static meshes inside the
Modelling Editor.

This wireframe shows the difference between the two rooms (top is old, bottom is new):

![Wireframe-Modelling.png](Wireframe-Modelling.png)

After doing this, the mirror works flawlessly (and exposes that we were too lazy to add a player model):

<video src="Elevator-Mirror.mp4"/>

The elevator is now fully functional and complete, we will however still change the layout of the room, as there is
supposed to be a second elevator, as well as two hallways on the side of them.

[//]: # (TODO multiplayer information?)

### Multiplayer

We have added the feature to play the game in multiplayer mode with your friends.  
These sample images and videos show what our multiplayer currently looks like.

At the current state, the multiplayer can be shared with up to 4 people on one server. 

#### Demo picture multiplayer:

![Multiplayer-Demo-1.jpg](Multiplayer-Demo-1.jpg)

#### Demo video multiplayer:

<video src="Multiplayer-Demo-Video.mp4"/>

Commit message:

Added images of the main menu.

Writerside/topics/Week-02.md, after:

# Week 02

## New Technology used this week

- [FL Studio](https://www.image-line.com/)
- Blender (Modification of some static meshes)

## Progress this week

This week, we created new sounds, reworked the starter room and gave the elevator some animations.

### Sounds

First, we downloaded some sounds and modified them using FL Studio. We added filters and other modifications, to create
a unique sound for the game.

Once we had modified the sounds, we integrated them into the game. Of course, the sounds are not yet perfect at this
stage of the project.
They will still be improved so that they feel natural when playing.

The following image is a Screenshot of the Mixing & Filter area in FL Studio:

![FL_Studio.png](FL_Studio.png)

[//]: # (TODO a video of the sounds ingame?)

### Elevator animations

We converted the elevator door into a blueprint and added a sliding animation to it. The elevator door now opens when
the player stands inside the elevator.

We also added a new spawn point inside the elevator, which means that the player now starts inside the elevator.

<video src="Elevator-Animation.mp4"/>

### Reworked Starter Room

As it was already possible to see in the video above, we added a mirror to the elevator. This was done to resemble the
real-life elevator in the building where the game is set as close as possible.

This came with the problem that the current starter room was invisible in the mirror. After a bit of debugging, we found
out, that the Unreal Engine Box Brushes are sort of deprecated and won't render in the lighting system, which is
possible to see in the Lumen overview mode. Due to this, we had to remake the whole room using static meshes inside the
Modelling Editor.

This wireframe shows the difference between the two rooms (top is old, bottom is new):

![Wireframe-Modelling.png](Wireframe-Modelling.png)

After doing this, the mirror works flawlessly (and exposes that we were too lazy to add a player model):

<video src="Elevator-Mirror.mp4"/>

The elevator is now fully functional and complete, we will however still change the layout of the room, as there is
supposed to be a second elevator, as well as two hallways on the side of them.

### Multiplayer and Main Menu

We have added the feature to play the game in multiplayer mode with your friends.
These sample images and videos show what our multiplayer currently looks like.

At the current state, the multiplayer can be shared with up to 4 people on one server.

To join a server, we added a Main Menu with basic functionalities like creating a server, viewing a list of active
servers, and joining a server.

![Main-Menu-W2.png](Main-Menu-W2.png)

![Server-List-W2.png](Server-List-W2.png)

![Create-Server-W2.png](Create-Server-W2.png)

We also played around a bit in the game and took some screenshots and videos of the multiplayer mode, since even just
running around with friends can be fun:

![Multiplayer-Demo-1.jpg](Multiplayer-Demo-1.jpg)

<video src="Multiplayer-Demo-Video.mp4"/>
